CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Development

```bash
npm install
npm run build   # compile TypeScript → dist/
npx vitest      # run tests
```

## Pull Requests

Open PRs against `main`. Keep changes focused — one concern per PR.

## Releasing

Releases are triggered automatically when a PR is merged into `main` with one of these labels:

| Label   | When to use |
|---------|-------------|
| `patch` | Bug fixes, small improvements (e.g. `1.2.3` → `1.2.4`) |
| `minor` | New backwards-compatible features (e.g. `1.2.3` → `1.3.0`) |
| `major` | Breaking changes (e.g. `1.2.3` → `2.0.0`) |

**PRs without a release label are not published.** Use this for docs, CI changes, refactors, or anything that shouldn't trigger a release.

When a labeled PR merges, the workflow will:

1. Bump the version in `package.json` according to the label
2. Commit the version bump to `main`
3. Create and push a git tag (e.g. `v1.2.4`)
4. Publish to npm
5. Publish to the MCP Registry

### Emergency / manual release

If you need to trigger a publish outside a PR merge, go to **Actions → Publish → Run workflow** and select the bump type.

## Publishing to Smithery

After a new version is released to npm, update the Smithery listing:

```bash
npm run publish:smithery
```

Commit message:

fix: remove commit-back to main, require manual version bump in PR (#27)
* fix: remove commit-back to main, require manual version bump in PR

Workflow no longer pushes to main (blocked by branch protection).
Developer bumps package.json version in the PR; on merge the workflow
reads it, creates the tag, and publishes.

* fix: enable pipefail in tag-check step to catch git ls-remote failures

* fix: capture git ls-remote output before piping, quote VERSION assignment

* fix: explicitly check git ls-remote exit status in tag-check step

* fix: capture git ls-remote stderr and include in failure message

* ci: validate version and ensure Node.js is set up before reading package.json

Move Setup Node.js before Read version so the node binary is deterministic,
and add semver validation that fails fast if VERSION is empty or malformed.

---------

Co-authored-by: Juan C. Flores <jflores@parrotdevs.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

## Development

```bash
npm install
npm run build   # compile TypeScript → dist/
npx vitest      # run tests
```

## Pull Requests

Open PRs against `main`. Keep changes focused — one concern per PR.

## Releasing

Releases are triggered automatically when a PR is merged into `main` with one of these labels:

| Label   | When to use |
|---------|-------------|
| `patch` | Bug fixes, small improvements (e.g. `1.2.3` → `1.2.4`) |
| `minor` | New backwards-compatible features (e.g. `1.2.3` → `1.3.0`) |
| `major` | Breaking changes (e.g. `1.2.3` → `2.0.0`) |

**PRs without a release label are not published.** Use this for docs, CI changes, refactors, or anything that shouldn't trigger a release.

Before merging a release PR, bump the version in `package.json` manually (e.g. `npm version patch --no-git-tag-version`). The workflow reads the version from `package.json` and will fail if the tag already exists.

When a labeled PR merges, the workflow will:

1. Read the version from `package.json`
2. Create and push a git tag (e.g. `v1.2.4`)
3. Publish to npm
4. Publish to the MCP Registry

### Emergency / manual release

If you need to trigger a publish outside a PR merge, go to **Actions → Publish → Run workflow**.

## Publishing to Smithery

After a new version is released to npm, update the Smithery listing:

```bash
npm run publish:smithery
```
